README.md, before:

# Cotton-plant-disease-prediction

## About Application:
* Predict cotton plan disease based on the input image.
* Dataset link: https://www.kaggle.com/janmejaybhoi/cotton-disease-dataset
* Train data: <strong>1957</strong> images. Validation data: <strong>324</strong> images. Test data: <strong>18</strong> images
* Trained using <strong>RESNET50, INCEPTIONV3 & RESNET152V2</strong> architectures (TRANSFER LEARNING).
* <strong>RESNET152V2</strong> offered accuracy: 0.9810 - loss: 0.2066 - val_loss: 0.0000e+00 - val_accuracy: 1.0000 for 20 epochs.
* Application predicts the uploaded image into 1 of the category: <strong>"diseased cotton leaf" </strong>, <strong>"diseased cotton plant" </strong>, <strong>"fresh cotton leaf" </strong>, and <strong>"fresh cotton plant"</strong> 
* Images captured from drone/camera can be used to predict the cotton disease. Whereas, the manual intervention of detecting cotton disease would be difficult for large area of land.

## Demo video:
* https://youtu.be/p8kCMDpUi3Y

## Tech stack:
Deep learning | Keras | AJAX | Bootstrap 

## Trained prediction model link
* https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1tkn1n3Z0LaSp2qUvX7Hxqa693B9AOntE?usp=sharing download model file and paste in project root directory.
* Please refer below appliaction directory for reference.

## Application directory structure
![](https://github.com/Akshaykumarcp/cotton-plant-disease-prediction/blob/main/images/directory_structure.jpg)

## License 
[<img align="left" alt="" width="52px" src="https://icon-icons.com/icons2/2649/PNG/512/mit_license_icon_160873.png" />](https://spdx.org/licenses/MIT.html)

<br/>

### Connect with me:

[<img align="left" alt="" width="22px" src="https://simpleicons.org/icons/linkedin.svg" />](https://www.linkedin.com/in/akshay-kumar-c-p/)
[<img align="left" alt="" width="22px" src="https://simpleicons.org/icons/youtube.svg" />](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC3l8RTE3zBRzUrHbSXpx-qA)
[<img align="left" alt="" width="22px" src="https://simpleicons.org/icons/github.svg" />](https://github.com/Akshaykumarcp)
[<img align="left" alt="" width="22px" src="https://simpleicons.org/icons/medium.svg" />](https://medium.com/@akshai.148)

Commit message:

Updated how to run step

README.md, after:

# Cotton-plant-disease-prediction

## About Application:
* Predict cotton plan disease based on the input image.
* Dataset link: https://www.kaggle.com/janmejaybhoi/cotton-disease-dataset
* Train data: <strong>1957</strong> images. Validation data: <strong>324</strong> images. Test data: <strong>18</strong> images
* Trained using <strong>RESNET50, INCEPTIONV3 & RESNET152V2</strong> architectures (TRANSFER LEARNING).
* <strong>RESNET152V2</strong> offered accuracy: 0.9810 - loss: 0.2066 - val_loss: 0.0000e+00 - val_accuracy: 1.0000 for 20 epochs.
* Application predicts the uploaded image into 1 of the category: <strong>"diseased cotton leaf" </strong>, <strong>"diseased cotton plant" </strong>, <strong>"fresh cotton leaf" </strong>, and <strong>"fresh cotton plant"</strong> 
* Images captured from drone/camera can be used to predict the cotton disease. Whereas, the manual intervention of detecting cotton disease would be difficult for large area of land.

## Demo video:
* https://youtu.be/p8kCMDpUi3Y

## Tech stack:
Deep learning | Keras | AJAX | Bootstrap | Pycharm IDE

## Trained prediction model link
* https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1tkn1n3Z0LaSp2qUvX7Hxqa693B9AOntE?usp=sharing download model file and paste in project root directory.
* Please refer below appliaction directory for reference.

## Application directory structure
![](https://github.com/Akshaykumarcp/cotton-plant-disease-prediction/blob/main/images/directory_structure.jpg)

## How to run ?
1. Clone/Download the project from github
2. Follow above "Trained prediction model link" step
3. create new conda/python environment, activate the environment created and install application dependencies via terminal command in root directory of the application by "pip install -r requirments.txt"
4. Run app.py file (https://youtu.be/p8kCMDpUi3Y)

## License 
[<img align="left" alt="" width="52px" src="https://icon-icons.com/icons2/2649/PNG/512/mit_license_icon_160873.png" />](https://spdx.org/licenses/MIT.html)

<br/><br/>

### Connect with me:

[<img align="left" alt="" width="22px" src="https://simpleicons.org/icons/linkedin.svg" />](https://www.linkedin.com/in/akshay-kumar-c-p/)
[<img align="left" alt="" width="22px" src="https://simpleicons.org/icons/youtube.svg" />](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC3l8RTE3zBRzUrHbSXpx-qA)
[<img align="left" alt="" width="22px" src="https://simpleicons.org/icons/github.svg" />](https://github.com/Akshaykumarcp)
[<img align="left" alt="" width="22px" src="https://simpleicons.org/icons/medium.svg" />](https://medium.com/@akshai.148)
